This part of the series deals with the following:

+ Spatial Audio Basics – a short history of practice and concepts in spatial sound and music design. The focus is describing multichannel audio for artists and first-timers. This includes an introduction to terminology such as binaural and Ambisonic sound rendering. (Web page and Videos)
+ Facebook 360 Spatial Workstation – setting up and using the industry standard tool for immersive audio production for 360 video content. (Videos)
+ Ambisonics in Reaper – using paid and open source technologies to produce Ambisonic content at home and in the Spatial Audio Lab in White City. (Web page and Videos)
+ Getting your work out there – deeper discussion of multichannel audio for large speaker arrays and how to host your spatial audio on services like YouTube and HOAST360. (Web page and Videos)
+ Locative Sound - using individual sound source to create interactive systems.
+ Realistic acoustics in virtual spaces – using rendering systems to “bake” realistic acoustics into your Unreal and Unity game worlds. (Recorded Workshop)
+ Advanced Spatialisation Approaches – a review of further techniques such as SuperCollider, Spat in Max/MSP. (Recorded Workshop)

# Spatial Audio Basics

# Facebook 360 Spatial Workstation

# Ambisonics in Reaper

Please see the Moodle course [Using Reaper in the Spatial Sound Lab](https://moodle.rca.ac.uk/mod/scorm/view.php?id=33803). This course requires completing the [Spatial Sound Lab Induction.](https://moodle.rca.ac.uk/mod/scorm/view.php?id=33845)

# Getting Our Work Out There

# Locative Sound

Locative sound refers to sound art and music that is specifically designed for and responds to a particular physical space or location. It is a form of site-specific audio that uses the unique acoustic properties of a space to create an immersive and interactive sonic experience. 

This can be done with various speakers and sensors scattered around a space which either requires direct input from the audience such as the use of mobile phones to contribute towards a cacophony of noise, or in passive way by tracking how many people are in a room to trigger sound.

_Some tools to look at:_
+ [IRCAM's Nu tool for collective sound making](https://ircam-cosima.github.io/soundworks-nu/#head)
+ [Make location based sound and music apps with Nodal](https://nodal.studio/#!/home)
+ [Add to an online soundscape using Echoes](https://echoes.xyz/echoes-creative-apps#creator)

# Realistic Acoustics in Virtual Spaces

# Advanced Spatialisation Approaches